---
title: News about fees, dates, accommodations and what to expect in Singapore!
date: 2015-10-20 16:17:48
layout: news.hbs
---
Dear all,

As we are moving close to the [proposal submission](/call-for-proposals/) deadline **(Dec. 21)** I wanted to provide you with a conference update, which might support your considerations to come to Singapore. We want to welcome as many as possible scholars, practitioners and animation enthusiasts from all over the world.

Please feel free to address any additional questions through:
<a href="mailto:sas2016@ntu.edu.sg?subject=Question">sas2016@ntu.edu.sg</a>

Assoc. Prof. Hannes Rall  
Conference Chair

Prof. Vibeke Sorensen  
Conference Co-Chair  
Chair of ADM

## Important dates:
<ul class="timeline-list">
  <li>
    **December 21, 2015 (Monday)**  
    [Call for proposals](/call-for-proposals/) deadline.
  </li>
  <li>
    **Mid February 2016 (the latest)**  
    Paper acceptance notification.  
    Conference registration opens.
  </li>
</ul>

## Conference fee and special events

***Conference fee (mandatory)***

### Three days attendance
- <span class="zoom-font">**Professionals:** S$350</span> *(Approximately:  US$252 || Euro 222 || GBP 162)*  
- <span class="zoom-font">**Students:** S$200</span> *(Approximately:  US$144 || Euro 127 || GBP 93)*  
- <span class="zoom-font">**NTU Students and Alumni:** S$150</span>

Includes morning welcome coffee/tea, two catered tea/coffee breaks with light refreshments and daily lunches Monday to Wednesday (inclusive).

### One day attendance
- <span class="zoom-font">**Professionals:** S$120</span> *(Approximately:  US$86 || Euro 76 || GBP 56)*  
- <span class="zoom-font">**Students:** S$70</span> *(Approximately:  US$50 || Euro 44 || GBP 33)*  
- <span class="zoom-font">**NTU Students and Alumni:** S$50</span>

### Special Events (optional)
There will also be special catered events and excursions, which we will have a modest charge (optional) to cover catering. We are looking to bring the best of Southeast Asian hospitality to you!

<ul class="timeline-list">
<li>**Sunday, June 26**  
Opening screening and reception.</li>

<li>**Evening of Tuesday, June 27**  
Excursion to Centre of Contemporary Art with catered reception.</li>

<li>**Thursday, June 30**  
Closing party at ADM</li>

<li>**Friday, July 1st**  
City tour Singapore.</li>
</ul>

Be also aware of the fact that to be able to ultimately participate in the conference you need to be a member of the Society of Animation Studies.
This is <span class="highlight">not (!) a pre-requisite</span> for submitting a proposal or being accepted though.

<span class="highlight">You can become a member after paper-acceptance!</span>
It does not cost much (US$35 - pros / US$20 students) and offers great value:
For more information on the membership, go to its <a href="http://ww2.animationstudies.org/index.php/membership/member-join" target="_blank">webpage</a> or contact the SAS treasurer, Robert Musburger, at <a href="mailto:rmusburger@comcast.net">rmusburger@comcast.net</a>

## Coming to Singapore

Singapore offers an extremely clean, safe and efficient environment, which makes visiting entirely easy and stress-free.

The climate is tropical and highly humid, we are close to the equator.
Average temperatures between 23 and 34 degree Celsius all year round.
But nothing too fear-the next air-con shelter is always close, water is available everywhere, buildings are all equipped with well working air con.
NTU has covered walkways to protect from the sun as well, a concept you can find throughout the city.

Food is available in a wide variety of pricing starting from an affordable S$5-10 hawker meal to high-end restaurants. Street food is generally safe and often delicious. All types of cuisine are catering to Singapore’s large cosmopolitan population.

## Transportation

### Arriving in Singapore

All major international flights arrive in <a href="http://www.changiairport.com/" target="_blank">Changi Airport</a>, certainly one of the best airports in the world with a welcoming and friendly atmosphere.

Very clean and efficient, free trolleys and clear signage.

Immigration is perfectly organized and works very fast, no long lines to fear.

- Flights from the **US**: S$ 2000 - 2500
- Flights from **Europe**: S$ 1200 - 1500
- Flights from **Asia** *(close destinations like Indonesia, Malaysia)*: S$ 300 -1000
- Flights from **Australia and New Zealand**: S$ 700 - 1000

All prices are rough estimates based on 1 person round trip from a major city.
Prices vary great due to availability.
The earlier you book-the cheaper it will be.

### Getting around in Singapore

<span class="highlight">Easy:</span> A well organized MRT system (public trains), busses and the comparatively cheap and 100% trustworthy taxis are available.

A taxi ride from Changi Airport to the conference venue (Nanyang Technological
University) will set you back between S$45 - 60 depending on the time of day.
But this will already cover the widest distance you will be able to travel on our island because you are going all the way from the East to the West coast.
The ride will take you roundabout 45 minutes and be about 40 km.

A ride from NTU (conference venue) to the city center will be 25 km and cost you roughly S$25 - 30, cheaper outside of peak hours.

Alternatively busses are available to the next MRT station (Boon Lay) or you can take a taxi to go there. That brings down the price of transportation drastically, if you are travelling on a budget.

## Accommodation
### Nanyang Executive Centre
We have pre-reserved rooms at a special rate at the hotel closest to the conference venue: NTU’s own [Nanyang Executive Centre](http://www.ntu.edu.sg/nec/Pages/default.aspx).


It is in easy walking distance (5 minutes) from our School of Art, Design and Media.
Those who are looking for a convenient and solid accommodation option at a reasonable price (for Singapore), you are in the right place here.
The booking link will go up together with actual registration in early February.
You will have to book on your own, referencing:

<span class="zoom-font highlight-box-soft-w">**“SAS Conference 2016 NTU”**</span>

Rates are as follows (prevailing taxes will apply)  
- Standard room with daily breakfast: **S$144**
- Twin room with daily breakfast: **S$162**
- Deluxe room with daily breakfast: **S$189**

We are in further negotiations with downtown hotels for those who want to stay in the City center (roughly abut 30 - 40 minutes way from NTU = conference venue).

Details will follow.

### Student Halls
We are also looking into securing accommodation on the budget side.

We are optimistic to be able to offer additional accommodation at low rates as detailed below. We are in the process of finalizing the sign-up process for this, which will be different from the hotel-bookings.

However, we thought, it will help your consideration of making the trip to Singapore that there will also be cheaper option available.

Be aware though that this will be <span class="highlight">budget (!) accommodation in student halls</span> and rather basic.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Daily rental charges on a per person basis</th>
      <th>Twin/sharing</th>
      <th>Single</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Students</td>
      <td>**AC:** S$30  
      **Non AC:** S$20</td>
      <td>**AC:** S$38  
      **Non AC:** S$28</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Non-student</td>
      <td>**AC:** S$45  
      **Non AC:** S$30</td>
      <td>**AC:** S$59  
      **Non AC:** S$44</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>